Update Machine Learning docs to be reference only (#3376)
viamrobotics/docs: docs/services/ml/ml-models.md

---
title: "ML Models"
linkTitle: "ML Models"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
tags: ["data management", "ml", "model training"]
images: ["/services/ml/train-model.gif"]
videos: ["/services/ml/train-model.webm","/services/ml/train-model.mp4"]
videoAlt: "Add a bounding box around the dog in an image."
aliases:
  - /data/train-model/
description: "Train an image classification model on labeled image data."
aliases:
  - /manage/ml/train-model/
  - /ml/train-model/
  - /services/ml/train-model/
  - /services/ml/upload-model/
  - /services/ml/edit/
  - /ml/edit/
  - /manage/data/upload-model/
  - /manage/ml/upload-model/
  - /ml/upload-model/
no_service: true
# SME: Tahiya + Alexa Greenberg
---

Machine Learning (ML) models are mathematical models that can recognize patterns.
The [ML model service](/services/ml/deploy/) runs ML models on your machines.
Services like the [vision service](/services/vision/mlmodel/) can then use the ML model services to provide your machine with information about its surroundings.

> The ML model service works with models trained inside and outside the Viam app:

Author: ```suggestion
The [ML model service](/ml/deploy/) works with models trained inside and outside the Viam app:
```

If you [deploy a model](/services/ml/) to a machine, Viam automatically assumes that this is the `latest` version of the model and that you would always like to deploy the `latest` version of the model to the machine.
If you train a new version of that model, Viam will automatically deploy the new version to the machine and replace the old version.

If you do not want Viam to automatically deploy the `latest` version of the model, you can change `packages` configuration in the [JSON machine configuration](/configure/#the-configure-tab).
The model package config looks like this:

```json
{
  "package": "<model_id>/<model_name>",
  "version": "YYYY-MM-DDThh-mm-ss",
  "name": "<model_name>",
  "type": "ml_model"
}
```

You can get the version number from a specific model version by navigating to the [models page](https://app.viam.com/data/models) finding the model's row, clicking on the right-side menu marked with **_..._** and selecting **Copy package JSON**. For example: `2024-02-28T13-36-51`.

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}
When you [train](/how-tos/deploy-ml/) a new version of a model, the previous model remains unchanged and is not used as input.
{{< /alert >}}

> 

Author: ```suggestion

If you need to make changes to a model, you can edit or delete it on the [**MODELS** tab](https://app.viam.com/data/models) in the **DATA** section of the Viam app.

```

---
title: "ML Models"
linkTitle: "ML Models"
weight: 40
type: "docs"
tags: ["data management", "ml", "model training"]
images: ["/services/ml/train-model.gif"]
videos: ["/services/ml/train-model.webm","/services/ml/train-model.mp4"]
videoAlt: "Add a bounding box around the dog in an image."
aliases:
  - /data/train-model/
description: "Train an image classification model on labeled image data."
aliases:
  - /manage/ml/train-model/
  - /ml/train-model/
  - /services/ml/train-model/
  - /services/ml/upload-model/
  - /services/ml/edit/
  - /ml/edit/
  - /manage/data/upload-model/
  - /manage/ml/upload-model/
  - /ml/upload-model/
no_service: true
# SME: Tahiya + Alexa Greenberg
---

Machine Learning (ML) models are mathematical models that can recognize patterns.
The [ML model service](/services/ml/deploy/) runs ML models on your machines.
Services like the [vision service](/services/vision/mlmodel/) can then use the ML model services to provide your machine with information about its surroundings.

> The [ML model service](/ml/deploy/) works with models trained inside and outside the Viam app:

Author: ```suggestion
The ML model service works with models trained inside and outside the Viam app:
```

If you [deploy a model](/services/ml/) to a machine, Viam automatically assumes that this is the `latest` version of the model and that you would always like to deploy the `latest` version of the model to the machine.
If you train a new version of that model, Viam will automatically deploy the new version to the machine and replace the old version.

If you do not want Viam to automatically deploy the `latest` version of the model, you can change `packages` configuration in the [JSON machine configuration](/configure/#the-configure-tab).
The model package config looks like this:

```json
{
  "package": "<model_id>/<model_name>",
  "version": "YYYY-MM-DDThh-mm-ss",
  "name": "<model_name>",
  "type": "ml_model"
}
```

You can get the version number from a specific model version by navigating to the [models page](https://app.viam.com/data/models) finding the model's row, clicking on the right-side menu marked with **_..._** and selecting **Copy package JSON**. For example: `2024-02-28T13-36-51`.

{{< alert title="Note" color="note" >}}
When you [train](/how-tos/deploy-ml/) a new version of a model, the previous model remains unchanged and is not used as input.
{{< /alert >}}

> If you need to make changes to a model, you can edit or delete it on the [**MODELS** tab](https://app.viam.com/data/models) in the **DATA** section of the Viam app.

Author: ```suggestion
If you need to make changes to a model, you can edit or delete it on its page which you can access from the [**MODELS** tab](https://app.viam.com/data/models).
```
